src/devices/Bmxx80/README.md, before:

# BMx280 - Digital Pressure Sensors BMP280/BME280

## Summary

BMx280 is a device family that read barometric pressure, altitude and temperature. SPI and I2C can be used to communicate with the device (only I2C implemented so far).

The implementation supports both BME280 and BMP280.

## Device Family

[Datasheet](https://cdn-shop.adafruit.com/datasheets/BST-BMP280-DS001-11.pdf) for the BMP280.
[Datasheet](https://ae-bst.resource.bosch.com/media/_tech/media/datasheets/BST-BME280-DS002.pdf) for the BME280.

## Usage

2 examples on how to use this device binding are available in the [samples](samples) folder.

The following fritzing diagram illustrates one way to wire up the BMP280 with a Raspberry Pi using I2C.

![Raspberry Pi Breadboard diagram](samples/rpi-bmp280_i2c.png)

General:

| Bmp280 | Raspberry |
|--------|:---------:|
|Vin| Power pin|
|GND| Ground|

I2C:

| Bmp280 | Raspberry |
|--------|:---------:|
|SCK| I2C clock pin|
|SDI| I2C data pin|

### Connection Type

The following connection types are supported by this binding.

- [X] I2C
- [ ] SPI

Commit message:

Update readme to include the BME680 sensor

src/devices/Bmxx80/README.md, after:

# BMxx80 Device Family

## Summary

BMxx80 is a device family that senses temperature, barometric pressure, altitude, humidity and VOC gas.

SPI and I2C can be used to communicate with the device (only I2C implemented so far).

## Device Family
The implementation supports the following devices:

- BMP280 temperature and barometric pressure sensor ([Datasheet](https://cdn-shop.adafruit.com/datasheets/BST-BMP280-DS001-11.pdf))
- BME280 temperature, barometric pressure and humidity sensor ([Datasheet](https://ae-bst.resource.bosch.com/media/_tech/media/datasheets/BST-BME280-DS002.pdf))
- BME680 Temperature, barometric pressure, Humidity and VOC gas sensor ([Datasheet](https://ae-bst.resource.bosch.com/media/_tech/media/datasheets/BST-BME680-DS001.pdf))

## Usage

2 examples on how to use this device binding are available in the [samples](samples) folder.

The following fritzing diagram illustrates one way to wire up the BMP280 with a Raspberry Pi using I2C.

![Raspberry Pi Breadboard diagram](samples/rpi-bmp280_i2c.png)

General:

| Bmp280 | Raspberry |
|--------|:---------:|
|Vin| Power pin|
|GND| Ground|

I2C:

| Bmp280 | Raspberry |
|--------|:---------:|
|SCK| I2C clock pin|
|SDI| I2C data pin|

### Connection Type

The following connection types are supported by this binding.

- [X] I2C
- [ ] SPI
